
# Main Features #

The app uses the React framework to retrieve 24 images from the Flickr public photo search API. It requires a Flickr non-commercial API key, as described below in the To Install section.
- "npm start" launches the app with the URL "localhost:3000", which automatically redirects to a search for "octopus".
- The app has a search form to submit a user-defined search.
- The app has three buttons to submit pre-defined searches.
- A search may be submitted with a URL of the form "localhost:3000/search/_topic_" where _topic_ is the search term.
- The browser's Back button redisplays previous searches.

# Exceeds Requirements Features #
The app also has the following features
- A Loading message appears briefly between the search submission and the results display.
- A No Results message is displayed if the search returns nothing.
- A URL path that is not of the form /search/_topic_ returns a Page Does Not Exist message.

# To Install #
1. Download the project and install dependencies with npm.
2. In the src folder find the file config-template.js and open in an text editor.
3. Replace "insert-your-flickr-api-key-here" with a Flickr non-commerical API key. The key must be surrounded by quotes.
4. Save the file as config.js.
5. Launch the app with "npm start".

# Code Structure #

**App component**: The primary component that drives the application.
- Defines the functions that fetch data from the Flickr photo search API, parses the response, and saves the photo URLs in the state data.
- Defines app routes
  - The root path which is redirected to the default search,
  - The /search/_topic_ route which renders the GalleryContainer
  - Any other routes are directed to Page Not Found.
- Defines the defaultSearch variable which is the default search for the root path. Currently it is set to "octopus", which is also the first pre-defined search. It may be another value independent of the search buttons.
- Sets state values
  - *isLoading*, a boolean. True indicates the Flickr search API is submitted and the app is waiting for a response. It is reset to false after the response is parsed.
  - *search*, a string. The search term and the value for the API tag parameter that resulted in the current gallery display. When the app is launched its initial value is the empty string.
  - *items*, an array of objects. The objects are the URL and Flickr id for each photo in the last search response. If the response returned no results it is an empty array.

**GalleryContainer component**: The component submits a new search when the current URL's topic is different than the previous search. It also renders the momentary Loading message and the photos returned by the API call. The photos are displayed as an array of GalleryItems components.

*There is a know console warning message that begins "Warning: Cannot update during an existing state transition" which appears when a URL is entered in the browser. This does not affect the page functionality.*

**GalleryItem component**: Displays a single photo.

**Header component**: Renders app title, search form and search buttons. The component is present above the gallery and the message pages mentioned below.

**Search component**: The input form for a user-defined search. It changes the page URL to include the user input by using React's history.push(). It does not initiate the search since that is handled by the GalleryContainer component.

**Nav component**: Defines three pre-defined searches using NavLink components that reference search URLs. The buttons do not initiate a search since that is handled by the GalleryContainer component.

**Loading, NoResults, PageNotFound components**: Simple message pages for when a search is in process, when no results are returned, and when the URL does not match the expected format, respectively.

# Scripts and Notes Generated by Create React App #

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br>
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br>
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.<br>
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br>
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br>
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `npm run eject`

**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can’t go back!**

If you aren’t satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (Webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you’re on your own.

You don’t have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn’t feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn’t be useful if you couldn’t customize it when you are ready for it.

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

### Code Splitting

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/code-splitting

### Analyzing the Bundle Size

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/analyzing-the-bundle-size

### Making a Progressive Web App

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app

### Advanced Configuration

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration

### Deployment

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment

### `npm run build` fails to minify

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/troubleshooting#npm-run-build-fails-to-minify
